here this a house of Jacob who are
called by the name of Israel and have
come forth from the Wellsprings of Judah
who swear by the name of the Lord and
make mention of the God of Israel but
not in truth or in righteousness for
they call themselves after the holy city
and lean on the God of Israel the Lord
of Hosts is his name I have declared the
former things from the beginning they
went forth from my mouth and I caused
them to hear it
suddenly I did them and they came to
pass because I knew that you were
obstinate and your neck was an iron
sinew and your brow bronze even from the
beginning I have declared it to you
before it came to pass I proclaimed it
to you lest you should say my idol has
done them and my carved image and my
molded image have commanded them you
have heard see all this and will you not
declare it I have made you hear new
things from this time even hidden things
and you did not know them they are
created now and not from the beginning
and before this day you have not heard
them lest you should say of course I
knew them surely you did not hear surely
you did not know surely from long ago
your ear was not opened for I knew that
you would deal very treacherously and
were called a transgressor from the womb
for my name's sake I will defer my
and for my praise I will restrain it
from you so that I do not cut you off
behold I have refined him but not a
silver I have tested you in the furnace
of affliction for my own sake for my own
sake I will do it for how should my name
be profaned and I will not give my glory
to another listen to me Oh Jacob and
Israel my called I am he I am the first
I am also the last indeed my hand has
laid the foundation of the earth and my
right hand has stretched out the heavens
when I call to them they stand up
together
all of you assemble yourselves and here
who among them has declared these things
the Lord loves him he shall do his
pleasure on Babylon and his arms shall
be against the Chaldeans I even I have
spoken yes I have called him I have
brought him and his way will prosper
come near to me hear this I have not
spoken in secret from the beginning from
the time that it was I was there and now
the Lord God and His Spirit have sent me
thus says the Lord your Redeemer the
Holy One of Israel I am the Lord your
God who teaches you to prophet who leads
you by the way you should go oh that you
had heeded my Commandments then your
peace would have been like a river and
your righteousness like the waves of the
sea your descendants also would have
been like the sand and the offspring of
your body like the grains of sand his
name would not have been cut off nori
from before me go forth from Babylon
flee from the Chaldeans with a voice of
singing declare proclaim this utter it
to the end of the earth say the Lord has
redeemed his servant Jacob and they did
not thirst when he led them through the
deserts he caused the waters to flow
from the rock for them he also split the
rock and the waters gushed out there is
no peace says the Lord for the wicked
you